Was the library here an important library?
Also the library.
That was one of the governor of the Ephesus.
After that of his dad, the son of the Selkut, he constructed a graveyard for him.
After construction of the temple, later on it converted as a library on the same side.
So it was not built originally as a library.
As a temple.
Then it was added to the temple, didn't it?
Or it was added to the temple.
The sun constructed the temple graveyard of the Celsius at the very center of the city, very good place in downtown area, but to eliminate the gossip
why this graveyard built very good locations.
To eliminate this gossip, also put the library side by side.
Too functional, okay?
Graveyard should be outside the city, somewhere in a distance.
What do we know about the kinds of books?
Was it an important library like Pergamum, where, of course, the scholars came from all over the world to study?
What did you say?
What did you say about Pergamum?
Pergamum?
It's a library in Bergama from the Hellenistic period.
Right.
But here in Roman one, there are time differences, era differences.
And kitap sayısı olarak ne olabilir?
The volume of the library here is around... There are no exact figures.
But what would they get?
Tahmini ne olabilir diyor.
If you consider the construction, 10,000 volumes.
But was Ephesus a center of learning?
Yes, it's the center of the taught knowledge.
Library is exactly at the epicenter of the Ephesus, very good location.
What was that was?
Why did they decide that?
Whenever we visit, we can understand the location and it's a very strategic location.
But it was a Roman library.
It was Roman.
So we believe the texts were all Roman texts or you think they were Greek texts?
Yes, Latin or Yunanca.
Both.
Greek and...
How long has he been working here?
Does he have a sense of the significance of Ephesus in history and maybe you can talk a little bit about the site that he has, the historical significance of it?
So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so... So, you know, so...
In Rome, in Istanbul, in Antioch and other Athens, in Roman cities, the Middle Age cities also constructed, established
on the Hellenistic period.
And nothing left there.
Because the successive cities established the same place.
But Ephesus, nothing.
Middle East lost the importance.
And 18,000 square meters available here.
to be excavated, very large air, square meter.
It's very intense archaeological area.
They remain to be excavated or that are available for excavation?
Available for excavation.
Also, this museum is among the Ephesus area.
We are sitting on the Ephesus.
Only the five persons and one to ten persons estimations only excavated.
About five percent of the Ephesus excavated yet.
Only five?
Only five percent.
What great things does he think remains to be discovered?
Artemis temple is still down there.
One of the wonders.
Statues of the Artemis.
Most important findings.
So why do they think that's here and not where at the site?
Neden alanda değil de burada diyor?
Korumak için değil mi?
Bulunan heykeller.
Artemis temple or statues you meet?
Well, what was he saying, the statues?
Statues, yes.
Statues of Artemis.
Displayed in the museum to protect against sun and rain.
But he thinks they're still buried now.
Yes.
Why, I know you answered me in the car, maybe he can answer.
Why did this city not, why were there not successive cities built on top of this one?
Why did it end, terminate as a city?
The port lost the importance I mentioned before.
In 12th century only a single village left at that time.
And then Turkish
came to here in the 14th century.
Beginning from the museum area, till Ephesus about one kilometer is protected, no settlement.
After the loss of its port, the FSS lost the importance and economical power.
So they were trading.
Yeah, the commerce was there.
Trading is the number one.
I'm just trying to write down his name here.
Yeah.
Write down his name.
Does he have a car name?
Yes, correct.
Thank you.
Does he work in excavation?
Yes, in active role.
How do you decide where to go?
Is it mainly by location or how do they decide what to excavate?
for an emergency need.
There are some places you should excavate immediately otherwise to be lost.
The first importance given to those places.
As an archaeologist, he is against the excavation for time being.
The soil covered findings are very well protected.
Excavating is going on for 100 years.
The findings, already excavated ones, should be renovated and restored.
After finishing them, the new excavations should be done.
Most of the ancient science in Turkey needs new excavations because a lot of wrongdoing done.
especially prehistoric sites suffered a lot because of the old technology and wrong excavations.
Ministry of Culture gave the funds.
Fifty percent of those funds should be allocated to restorations, not only excavations.
restorations getting a lot of importance so but only only five percent of the city yes estimation between the one to ten in his opinion one percent
And some scholars say it's 10%, say 5%.
But does he think that they did the most important part first?
Is this the most important part?
Yeah, almost, almost.
So the other parts would be what, residential areas?
You visited the area in 1975?
Yes.
If we compare in 1975,
Some houses, terrace houses we will see added to the site and terrace houses.
And restoration is going on, some of them completed.
And it's a very gradual process, very slowly it's going on.
Not too much added if you compare the 20 years ago.
But it's beautiful and he thinks that the stuff is just fine on the ground for that.
Yes, he thinks and is very fond of this.
I understand that the library records of fragments of parchment that are preserved there, is that right?
Nothing left.
Only from 10th century A.D.
Papyrus findings, the Bible,
Where is the Bible now?
Where was it found?
But it was in the church.
It wasn't buried or anything like that.
The graveyard is the complex we will see somewhere in the place.
It's in the bone, protected by bone chamber.
Chamber made by bone and it's very well preserved.
And I have it here.
Can we see it?
It's impossible.
It's the thickness of the chamber and the roll.
So it's rolled as a papyrus?
Papyrus, yes.
A papyrus Bible?
That's fantastic.
That excites me, yes.
Yes, he heyecanlandırdı.
And it's in Greek?
Well, what language is it in the Bible?
Is there anything... Have the scholars looked at it?
Is there anything important in the Bible that the scholars have been looking at it?
He's going to call somebody else, dealing with that issue.
Because today is closed, all offices are closed, just the museum is open and Mr. Erdemgil also came to here just to meet you.
That's wonderful.
... ... ... ... ... ... ... ...
It was a very difficult one of the people who were working with him.
He said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said, he said
It's the transcript from St.
John's Bible.
And it's a papyrus.
Protected in bone chamber.
And it dates from the 10th century.
10th century AD.
Okay.
I don't have any left.
This was very good.
I'd love to go and take a look around.
Anything else you think we should cover with him?
No.
Thank you very much for coming.
The press director gave you a book about Ephesus?
The book that he gave me, yes.
Yes, I have it.
Yes, yes.
architectural value is very important.
We will see in Southland's library, one of the highlights of the city.
And this was restored by, was it Austrians?
Who restored the life?
The Austrian firm Kalinger is the sponsor of the excavations.
I wonder why they picked the library to restore.
Why did they pick the library?
Why not something else?
Restoration, kütübhane yapmasının önemli bir sebebi var mıydı?
O niye seçildi?
Bulutlar mı daha çoktu?
Bulutlara çoktu.
A lot of finding in well-preserved conditions.
Easy to restore it.
Restoration is very expensive.
It was good condition and it takes about eight to ten years to be completed.
I finished it in 1978.
I'm not safe.
Please thank you very much for coming in.
I'm going to get a card.
What's the trademark of the recorder?
Thank you very much.
I have this as a... I carry two.
There's one as a backup because I can't find it.
I have this one.
I have this one for the distance.
This is excellent.
And it goes in both directions.
It gets to the end, and then it automatically records in the other direction, so you get two hours.
On one battery.
Explain a little bit.
When it gets to the end, it automatically records in the other direction.
So it goes two hours.
Very good.
Okay.
So, I'll tell him I'll make sure he gets a copy of the music when it comes out.
We're only in the year 2000.
Almost done.
This is the most important part.
This is where it all begins.
Thank you very much.
Thank you.
Oh, this is amazing.
This is a tarot house.
It's a tarot house.
Oh, this is a tarot house.
Oh.
And we saw yesterday the indigestion.
I'm telling you the truth.
.
Marble.
Yes?
Yes, live.
Yes.
Let me know what you can say.
We are in the spirit of religion, which is such a sound or a spirit.
It is in this spirit that doesn't matter anything, and in some form, just hold it.
That's the norm of society, which is just a spirit and spirit.
Almost a little bit of your career, but I think it's a project.
At this time, it was a sport.
That is a hobby.
At this time, it's a sport.
I think it's a sport.
I think it's a sport, a sport, a sport, a sport.
This really was what the... how do you call it?
Yes, how do you call it?
Oh, okay.
In the town, I see it here.
Do you know what you mean here?
Yes, it was.
It was here.
Yes.
To the point is why there is from the formula of the pouncy we would do to the effort we would do.
That would be very important.
That is what I would like to say.
Frank pouncy.
Work is very important, like the modern servants, you know, the fashion.
Have you ever made some work?
Yes.
There's a question.
How many of you started?
Thank you.
Yeah.
Well... Well...
This is my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life, my life,
Sandhya.
Wow.
It's one of the people that I do, right now.
It's going up in my window.
It's really a reason to never even describe material to us.
It's like that's how we're going to do it.
We're going to do it.
Thank you.
It's just like that.
It sounds like that.
We have a full circle.
... ... ... ... ...
How is it?
Is that it?
Yeah
Diana.
Thank you.
Yes.
And then giving a lot of food to the people, feeding them with arrows and balls, and I will send them back to the people.
Oh, yes.
um
... ... ... ... ...
It could be the war.
Go on.
Yeah.
I don't know.
you
Thank you.
.
the world
... ... ... ... ... ...
The tabloid is right out there.
You know what's going on?
When you die from the dead, you can live to us.
What's going on?
and one of the others, one of the others.
So there are still some communities.
First, they came, certainly, in the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language of the language
And if you have two of them, I will be seated.
That's what I'm going to say.
And I'll be here.
Beautiful father.
Great father.
What can I do for you?
If I'm in the middle of the year, I can't do the most part of the time.
I can't do the most part of the year.
Thank you.
I want to get rid of the nature.
All that I want to know is that the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature of the nature
Okay, whatever you say.
It's horrible now.
Come on.
If I were to take you to California.
Where?
Yeah.
Right now, you think you're California and you think you're here?
Where are we at?
Parts of California, like Northern California.
Sure.
Just like that.
Sorry.
Why do they use...this is all over the world, so there's no reason why you should know the answer to it.
I'm trying to find the answer to it.
But why do they use the lion to guide temples?
Why the lions?
It's very strong, you know.
I wonder if you know that.
I mean, for libraries in particular, they have lions.
Yeah.
power, strength, fulfillment, like a tiger or a lion, it goes way back and I can't have anything to do.
Now what was the Bowen Mary doing here?
Escaping from the Syria.
The non-Christian activation addiction?
Yes.
And a council.
Oh
Thank you.
Thank you
.
Bye.
Okay, I'm good too.
Sometimes I'm trying to avoid my physical, physical, physical, or physical.
Did you guys fly before you went through?
Yeah.
Very hard to cough.
There's a break here.
Thank you.
... ... ...
Look at that, yes.
What is that there, Captain?
Yes, have one.
Do you want to use the glass?
Yes.
Yes, you are with you.
I think you are with you.
You are with me.
Thank you.
I will go.
Oh, good.
The oil and the mining is excellent.
Thirteen dollars.
Welcome back.
.
I love that.
There are just activities in the city.
Just activities.
The only import of the country, very limited species, are all native.
What is your oil, right?
Where did the fish come from?
But not the black sea.
Black sea, when you are rich.
You know, it's raining food here.
If you want, I can order a lemon.
Thank you.
I don't know.
so
... ... ... ... ...
Thank you.
the the the